hello and welcome to epic TV today I'm
here to enlighten you to a rising star
in the dry tooling and ice climbing
world she's down roots from m12
up to M 14 which is she's the first lady
to have ever done Iron Man which was
only opened last year by a man called
Robert Jasper today it's Lucy hello Sava
hello everybody
tell us all about this m14 Iron Man
story I wasn't thinking that I could
make it I was thinking oh maybe next
time or next time and then I just climb
and I was like okay I can climb more and
more and more and then I I was clipping
the one quick draw before the last and
because the choice before I wasn't
clipping the last quick rose I don't
know the few meters I'm I mean like a 2
3 meters I didn't climb before so I was
like super stress and super shaking and
everybody down was like cheering me like
come on Lucy you can make it and I all
look like history like I didn't find
lost hi Rick help me help me how many
attempts to take you it was about four
tries but the beginning it's the same
with the other route we've actually got
the video of Robert yeah spur here which
we'll just put on so this this level
that you're pushing to in mix climbing
hmm how does it compare to the likes of
fellow check Adam Andra and the limits
that he's pushing in rock climbing are
they comparable I don't know it's very
different actually
I don't I don't compare this and Adam
he's my friend and
I think he's much much bigger styling me
more recently you obviously just
finished the World Cup in ice climbing
of which at the fourth stage you
actually came first and I think you came
fourth overall in total which is a
really good achievement are you happy
with your performance there yes I'm
happy because it's very hard to show
that you are the best because there's
lot of stuff which could happen I don't
know for example ice broken or just you
could sleep very very easily and it's a
you know it's more stressful than lead
climb being or Boulder for me I feel
like this so I'm happy for the four days
results but on the last World Cup in
care of I was quite said that I was on
the third third place I noticed that
there's maybe about two meters of ice
and then you kind of get into some is it
just wood for the rest of it yeah
usually it's there a lot of wood yes I'm
not happy for this because I really
prefer more like real ice climbing so
when we have I don't know for example in
Cairo when it's the ice block not good
no hurt you know and you were kick it
nice it's such it's it's much better for
me because I'm more like an ice climber
it looks really difficult to put your
crampons that they look like modified
crampons that you're trying to jab into
the wood like what's the difference
between those crampons and the normal
ones that other Mountaineers might take
out to climb Isaac the photo competition
they are very light and you are also
very frozen in this shoes because you
feel a car be cold how hard you think
you can climb like what's the next level
how far can you go oh one guy in French
he said me that he will be both the
route for me and it
be harder than Iron Man and so I will
see I went everything maybe what what
named you could you give it if you're
the first person uh I don't lady Iron
Lady nice very original
thanks for not being a dry tool you know
and keep it nice on the ice
okay perfect either open Matthew you've
been Lucy everyone else has been
watching thanks for coming really
appreciate talking to you it's been
great fun see you next time